>> Scott Moss: We are now gonna move into
something a little more advanced, but
definitely necessary.
And pretty much,
every head of CMS has this feature, but
how they implement it is always so
different.
The CMS that we're using, Contenful,
has a couple ways to implement what we're
gonna work on, which is gonna be previews.
And we're gonna choose one of those ways.
Other ways is just a lot more complicated,
and
I don't really have a lot
of experience with it.
So I'm not even gonna bother touching it,
but we'll address it and
we'll talk about it.
And then I'll kinda walk through
how other CMSs handle previous,
cuz it's all very quite interesting.
It's been a lot of time in this space on
this feature when [LAUGH] I was working on
the CMS, so it's one of those things that
it really does make or break it, I think.
In order to do previews, I gotta walk you
through what it means to have a preview,
and what is it that you're
actually previewing,
right, and why,
more specifically, the workflow.
So previews are a concept where, imagine
scenario where you have some content.
You're working on, let's go to one
of our pieces of content here,
let's say this post here.
Okay, I'm working on this post,
I don't know,
I'm not really ready to hit Publish yet,
right?
But I wanna see what it
looks like on the website.
But so far, we've always had to hit
Publish to see what it looks like
on a website.
If I hit Publish, well, it's gonna show
up on the production website because
everything that's published shows
up on the production website.
And I don't want draft content
showing up on the production website.
Who knows what the engineers have hooked
up to webhooks when it comes to that
Publish button being pushed?
In the case of,
if you're building websites with Gatsby,
this would trigger a rebuild with Gatsby.
This is a very common thing you did with
Gatsby, is a trigger rebuilds whenever
a CMS changed or something like that,
a CMS document changed.
In the case of Next.js, triggering
this could invalidate a tag that will
bring in some more content, right?
Or just adding it,
if you have a server function,
we'll then just show it in
that list of all your posts.
So you don't want that
to show if it's draft.
That could be really bad, but how do you
see it on the website in the meantime?
That's what a preview's for, the preview
allows you to see draft content.
And when I say you,
I mean specifically you,
the person who's looking at the preview,
and no one else, to see that.
How do they do it?
It's actually quite simple.
So the way it works is you give your
CMS a URL in which it can hit.
Typically, this URL is gonna be a route
handler, it's not gonna be a actual page.
It's not gonna be a front-end page,
it's not gonna be a route handler.
You can put whatever you want on that
query string when you give it to your CMS.
You can put a secret, and
you should put a secret there.
That way, you can can confirm
that it came from your CMS, and
it's not someone else trying to
see some of your draft content.
And then inside your route handler,
what you do is you confirm the secret,
you do all that stuff.
And then, depending on what the URL is and
your strategy for resolving previews,
it could be like,
I have a preview link for
every single type of entity
that can be previewed.
Or I have one preview link for everything,
it really just depends on
what your strategy is.
You're going to redirect that request to
your website, or whatever the content
that the person is trying to preview
is gonna be rendered on your website.
You're gonna redirect to that.
>> Scott Moss: And there's a couple
of things you do before that.
In Next.js, you have to enable
something called draft mode,
which basically, it just makes sure
that the caching isn't strong.
It just makes sure that when you
enable that, you're not gonna be
opted into the caching that would have
prevented some change being seen.
That's basically what draft mode does,
it just sets a cookie.
And then also, once that cookie
is set on the server components,
you can check to see
if that cookie is set.
If you're in draft mode,
we can pass that to our query like, hey,
we're in draft mode, so pass the preview
argument to all of our queries.
So when Contentful returns, when we do
a query to Contentful, we're passing
a preview true, so it knows to get
preview content, and that's how it flows.
And then you can clear that
cookie whenever you're done.
A lot of people put a button on the page
that'll show cool, exit preview, and
all that does, it just clears the cookie
and then redirects you to the other thing.
So that was a lot, we're gonna do
everything I just said, but I wanted to
walk you through that because it sounds
more complicated than it actually is.
And they even have a guide here
that walks you through it.
So what we're gonna do is we're
gonna set up a preview for our hero.
So our hero is gonna be,
just click on hero, this one.
>> Scott Moss: So to do that,
we're going to Set up a custom preview.
So if you click Set up a custom preview
here on the hero side, you could do that.
You could also click on settings and
go to Content preview, same thing,
it's the same page.
Click that, and then for the name,
typically the name you put here is
the thing that you are previewing.
So in this case, I'll put Hero Preview.
You can put a description if you want.
>> Scott Moss: And then for the preview
URL, so activate the content preview and
specify a custom URL for
every content type that should display.
So you can pick one of these content
types, we're gonna say Hero,
and then we can put the preview URL for
that.
So in this case,
it's not a webhook, right?
What it's gonna do, it's really just
gonna redirect your browser to that.
So it can be localhost, it doesn't have to
be something on a tunnel, like in Grok or
something like that,
cuz it's not making a call.
It's just gonna open up a tab and go here.
So it can be localhost, so
we're gonna put localhost.
In my case, I'm on 3,000.
We're gonna make a route, so
API route, so it'll be /api, and
then I'll just say draft.
You can call it whatever you want,
I'm calling it draft.
>> Scott Moss: All right, and
then you can also use these
interpolated values in your URL.
So if it has a slug or any field,
you can get the field and put it in here.
So if I wanted to do something like,
I think heroes have titles, right?
So I could do something like title and
then I could do entry.fields.title,
something like that.
And I'll put the title there,
so I can do things like that.
If you want to get crazy,
there's a lot of stuff you can do,
but I'm not gonna worry about that.
Okay, so we got that, I'm gonna hit Save.
Now we got a Hero Preview.
>> Scott Moss: This part's important
actually, so preview mode.
They have something called Live preview,
which they recommend,
we won't be doing this one.
[LAUGH] And they have this other
one called Preview in new tab,
we'll be doing this one.
Live preview is cool, we can check it out.
You can kinda see what it attempts to do.
The preview won't work.
There's just some code we have to do on
our side inside the app to enable this,
and getting that to work right now with
Next.js app directory, it's not hard.
You need to know a little
more about Next.js app.
I feel like it's too specific to that,
so I didn't wanna cover it.
It's way too specific to Next.js as
an app directory just to get around it.
But there's some things you have to
install, because basically what this is
gonna do, it's going to pull
your site up in a iframe.
When your site loads up in an iframe,
there's a bunch of security
issues around there.
So you gotta do some stuff with
the headers, you gotta enable some things.
You gotta install something
else on your side,
because the way iframe communication works
with its parent window is using, there's
a messaging API which they can communicate
back and forth if you enable that.
By default,
you get that on the same domain, but
when you're not on the same domain,
you have to enable that experience.
But if you do have that, it lets you
do this type of visual live editing.
So you can't actually edit on the website,
but you'll have a form next to you that
when you fill it out, you'll see it change
directly on the website immediately.
So you'll see things like
that that are really cool.
To be honest, it's cool, but
CMS has been doing that for a long time,
the newer CMS's are just way past that.
So it's great, but
it's like, yeah, whatever.
We're gonna do this one.
It just opens up a new tab which we don't
have to do anything on our side other than
make the route, so we'll do that one.
And it'll still be pretty valuable, so
make sure you click that Preview new tab.
And actually, no, let's click this.
I want you to see what it looks like,
so we'll do that.
I don't know who designed this UX, but
once you get here, you're in a dead end.
You can't go anywhere until
you click somewhere else.
There's not a back button or
anything, you're just dead.
I can't stand dead ends on apps, but
anyway, let's go back to Content,
go right here.
And now you should see Open Live Preview,
this should be enabled now.
So when I click it,
it's going to attempt to, well,
it should load up the website at least,
let's see.
Well, yeah, we don't have that route,
it doesn't have the /api/draft route,
so it's just 404, but
this is what it does.
It'll attempt to load it up, and then
you can edit some stuff on the left and
you'll see it change on the right,
which is great, that's what you want.
But again, iframes, things like that.
We're just gonna do old school, so I'm
gonna go back and I'm gonna change this.
Click on my Content preview, change
this back to Preview in a tab, hit Save.
And then now when I go back here,
>> Scott Moss: It'll say Open Preview and
it'll just open a preview tab.
Still 404 because we don't have that URL,
but you get the point.